The Joe Rogan experience.
Um, it's like trying to find your, your,
your calling and your passion in life's.
Like you don't ha have to necessarily know what that is,
but Whitt it down by fi what don't you want to take? What do you hate?
What do you hate? Right? Don't even look like what you like, what do you hate?
I don't wanna do this. I don't wanna do this. I don't wanna do this. I, I,
I learned very early on at a young age.
Like I do not want to go down this path that I see everybody on this,
go to school, get a job. Uh, have kids get married, retire, die.
Like, I, I, I don't want, I don't want that. I don't know what I do want.
I just know that to me. I don't want anything to do with that.
And I'm gonna go in these <affirmative> exact opposite direction,
whatever that is. As long as I'm far away from that, that'ss where I'm gonna be.
Well, it's one of the benefits of being an outsider. Yeah.
When you're an outsider and you see all these people that are supposedly doing
the right thing,
but living these sort of empty meaningless lives that they don't enjoy.
Yeah. Particularly that they don't enjoy, you know? And then <affirmative>,
you know, when I was a kid, I,
I always looked at normal people living normalized. I could never relate.
I never understood it. You know,
I also grew up from a broken home and we were also on welfare and, you know,
the whole deal mm-hmm <affirmative> because I think a lot of motivated people
come from a place of despair when they're younger. Yeah.
And I always had this thought in my head one day, I would make it yeah.
One day I'm gonna make it. I'm gonna make it. And then one day I realized,
and I don't know when I realized it. Probably when, like on paper,
I'd already made it. Yeah. Yeah. I realized, oh, there's no such place.
<laugh> like, this is not real. Like you can't ever, you don't make it.
No ma no one makes it. Yeah. Like if you,
every day you have to be trying to do better.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> every day you have to be trying, first of all,
there's no perfect human let's accept that. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
you're always gonna be flawed. You're always gonna,
you're always gonna be subject to fits of rage and envy and,
and all the things that you wish that you would never have in your mind.
So you've got a constant ly be working to make sure that that never happens.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
you'd constantly be working to make sure that you are always evaluating your
perspective on life. And always looking at things from meditate,
constantly meditate, make sure that you approach life with, uh, a,
a learned perspective.
Like you are a better than you were the day before mm-hmm <affirmative> and
whatever you're trying to do, whether it's fighting or whether you're,
you have an art form that you practice, whatever it is that you're doing,
you are trying to do better every day. And you never, even if you,
you accomplish some, like when you know you accomplish some amazing work of art,
that's just that day mm-hmm <affirmative> the next day you gotta go back to
work. Yeah. Like,
like if you have a world championship fight and you've trained for eight weeks
and you win by knockout and the spectacular result,
and you're very happy with the result you got a day or two to relax. Yeah.
You got a day or two, and then you're like, okay. Now what? Well,
now you gotta get back to work. And if you,
if you think that there's some place like a movie where you're holding hands
with your loved ones and the sunset's going on in the credits role,
that's horses.
And we have this idea in our head that there's this place that you can get to
where you have air quotes made it. Yeah.
And I'm here to tell you that doesn't exist. Yeah. I mean,
obviously I'm not the most successful person in the world, but on paper,
I've accomplished a lot of. And it doesn't mean a thing.
<laugh> every day, every day I get up. Yeah. And I'm like, all right, God,
I figure, figure out how to do this. I gotta work on this new bit. Okay.
I got this podcast today. I gotta be on point. Let me think about this.
Let me read this book. Let me, uh, you know, whatever the subject is,
let me get all, let me get into it. You, you have to, if you don't,
you're you're gonna feel like.
Yeah. It's that, that destination mentality. Yeah. There's.
No destination. Yeah. Stay just.
A journey. You're never gonna get there. There's no, it doesn't exist.
There's nowhere to go. <laugh>.
There's nowhere way to go. As soon as you get there, you're like, geez,
I'm just as far away from that thing that I thought,
because as you develop your, your,
the things that you think you want develop too. Yes. Oh,
one day I'm gonna be rich, but the richer, they,
you get the richer you want to become, well.
Then you start filling up your life with these meaningless destinations. Right.
Which are material objects. Like I wanna can yacht. Yeah. I want a jet,
you know, and you're like, I want a bigger jet. Tom's got a jet,
but I want a big jet. I wanna show, put my jet up beside hood jet,
let know there's levels to this game, you know, and that's what people do.
And it's, they, they fill their lives up with meaningless possessions and they,
and they still.
Aren't happy. <affirmative> a bandaid to cover up the, like,
what is the real thing here? Do.
You know how many really successful people I know that are medicated to. All,
all of them, a lot of.
'Em a lot of 'em more, more, more, more, more,
more so than the people that aren't in. A lot of ways.
The people that struggle they're on a better medication for real, the,
the struggle of like, like a hard working person that can get,
get done with a day of hard work and have a feeling of accomplishment and then
go home to your family and get going again,
knowing you have to get up in the morning and do it again,
knowing you don't have enough money to buy a yacht,
but knowing you have enough money to put food on a table,
and there's a satisfaction to be able to provide that that's a better medicine.
Well, that's the thing with, with why it's so important and vital to,
to travel and, you know, go to these third world countries.
Like these people literally have nothing and are
inviting perfect strangers into their homes and giving them things that,
that they, they do not even have themselves. Like,
why are these people so happy? Why are they so at peace? Right?
Because they end understand what's important that it's not this materialistic
thing. And, and that's not to say that materials are bad,
but we view them as these, these, these objects of, of success. Yes. And, and,
and, and I've made it and I've things are perfect in my life. And they,
they do the exact opposite in a lot of ways. If you don't have a
good grasp of, of what's really important in this life.
And, and UN,
unfortunately a lot of times we need everything taken away for us to really
understand what those things really are. Yeah.
You, you can appreciate some things.
You can appreciate a nice car or a nice house,
but if you get really caught up in them,
you are trying to fill up a bucket with a hole in it. Yeah.
And it's never gonna fill up. Yeah.
You're always just gonna look for bigger and bigger things to try to fill that
bucket up. And, and you're gonna feel full of anxiety all the time,
chasing that. Yeah. And there's no real,
there's no real ill satisfaction then that's why, you know,
when you look at one of the things that people look at,
when you look at people that are extremely materialistic, that you know,
where the,
the most fancy jewelry and drive the most fancy cars and the biggest
houses, we always think they're shallow. Always. I mean, isn't that funny?
Like the thing that you would look at in terms of like you like
markers for success, markers is like
material. Things are the big ones, right? They're the big markers for success.
The big house, the that's the big one, right? Yeah. Big mansion.
Look at his mansion, big everything, big, everything.
Look the big rock on its finger. Yeah. Big chain, you know,
big this big that the there's nothing there. Yeah. There's nothing there.
And so ingrained in us from the time that we're born, because.
It's hard to get. Yeah. That's, that's why it's a trick.
It's one of those things that's hard to get. So you think you want to get it?
Yeah.
Because there's a lot of things that are hard to get that are worth getting for
sure. Right. I mean, becoming a great fighter is hard. Yeah.
But it's worth doing. Yeah.
Because once you do do it and you you've realize like,
like there's an expression that I've used before, but my, uh, tango,
no instructor said to me when I was a, a little boy, he said,
martial arts are a vehicle for developing your human potential. Yeah.
And I remember that I' mean like, oh. Like,
and I've used that many times explaining to people,
but that is the benefit of getting good at a martial aren't. Yeah.
Like you go through this difficult thing. And then through that,
you reap all these personality rewards.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> you reap these character rewards.
You reap this understanding of what you're capable of. Right.
If you are capable of making it through a brutal camp and getting up in
the morning, when, you know, you don't want to,
that alarm clock goes off and you're like, I don't wanna run, but you do it.
You go out and run and you,
you do it every day and you get through it and then you're successful.
And you realize that you have this incredible endurance because of the
discipline that you put in,
you realize that you have this incredible skill and this understanding of how to
fight correctly because of all the time and the hours and the focus.
You're a better person because of that. Yeah. Right. That's a real goal.
But that yacht, you know, like the, the like, oh, I'm gonna,
I'm gonna work 16 hours a day so I can get a bigger yacht. And then, you know,
I, I need a house with bigger windows. I need a it's there's a nonsense to that.
Like, look, I'm not saying if you can afford a nice house, get a nice house.
Yeah. It's great to have a nice house. What I'm saying is it's not the end.
Yeah. It's the, you, you are the project. Yeah.
Your mind is the project. Yeah. How you treat people is the project. Yeah.
How you, your,
the way you are with your family and your friends and your loved one and the
people you communicate with, get better at that. Yeah. That's, that's,
that's the goal in this life. The goal in this life is how we treat each other.
I know. And I, I, I wish these were things that we were, uh, taught.
No, no, no, no. It's better. It's better that you didn't learn it that way,
because you had figured out yourself. Yes.
Cuz you had to figure it out yourself and cuz you can explain it to people.
That's true.
You particular that you can explain it to people having gone through this
horrific adversity mm-hmm <affirmative> and come out on the other end with a
message. Yeah. And so other people that are going through some tough,
you've got the medicine. Yeah.
The medicine is your you've you've actually experienced it. And you know,
it's a map, it's a map of the territory. It's not,
it's not a pill that you can take and all of a sudden everything's gonna be
better. But what it is is a map of the territory. Yeah. And you know, and,
and a knowledge, Hey, you can get through these woods. And on the other side,
there's a beautiful green meadow and there's a lake and it's really nice.
<laugh> <laugh>.
Yeah, for sure. You know, I think that that was one, uh,
one of the benefits of the way I grew up, which it,
which was really hard and horrible, but I got to see firsthand,
both sides of money. You know,
I went from living in a basement with five of the people, living on welfare,
to living with my father and a mansion. And it's like,
oh yeah, all this money and all this stuff is just emptiness and,
and meaningless. And, and it doesn't necessarily equate too real happiness.
No. And like, why are we'all chasing this so hard?
And I got to see that first hand very, very early on. I was like,
I don't want this at all. Well.
It's a trick. It's like the same reason why people love to play video games.
Yeah. Because they're difficult.
Uh-huh <affirmative> <affirmative> but there's no, there's no real reward.
Unless you're a professional video game player and you make a living doing it
nowadays. There's no real reward. You just get better at it.
And you get some sort of a sense of satisfaction and mm-hmm <affirmative>,
I mean, there's a, there's something to be gained from it. In fact,
some video games they've actually shown can increase your cognitive performance
and other things similar to the way Chad does. Right. But the,
the trap is that they're hard to do.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so when we see things that are difficult,
human beings are sort of puzzle and problem solving oriented.
We see puzzles we wanna solve and we see mysteries.
We wanna find out that's why everybody's into like Bigfoot and UFOs and.
Cause it's a mystery. Yeah. Oh, what is it? What do you think it is?
Like we have a natural inclination to try to solve things like that. Yeah.
And we think that because in life, look, if you try to solve where the food is,
you survive. That's what made us alive.
That's why our DNA has been passed down for all these hundreds of thousands of
years. Yeah. Cause our ancestors figured out where the food is, you know,
they figured out how to drill a hole in the ice and fish.
They figured out how to, you know, how to survive. Yeah.
And this is why things that are difficult to do are attractive to us,
but we have to be able to differ ranch between things that are difficult and
meaningful mm-hmm <affirmative> and things that are difficult and. Yeah.
My fr you know, Brian Coen mm-hmm <affirmative> my friend,
Brian Coen said something to me once when we were really young and uh,
it was the perfect thing. We're both in our twenties and he said,
all you want is enough money.
So you don't have to worry about what something costs when you go to a
restaurant. Yeah. He's like, everything else is. I was like, you're right.
Like that feeling of being able have enough money to just get a nice meal at a
restaurant and not sweat it. Yeah. Like everything else is gravy.
Yeah. Well, you know, they, they've done countless studies on this.
Like once your basic human needs are met, you know,
you have food shelter. Yeah. Um,
everything from that point on is doesn't correlate to any kind of happiness.
And in, in many ways is the exact opposite, you know, creates more stress. Yes.
And all of these things like what, how much do you really need? And if you,
the more you, you think you need, the, the more problems you're creating and,
and the more distractions you are from, um,
the important things in life and developing as a human being, you know,
you're developing all these materialistic things,
but you're not developing yourself emotionally and mentally and spiritually.
Yeah. And, uh, yeah, like just as soon as you realize that and be like,
why, why am I cha what am I,
what is the purpose of what it is that I am chasing? Yeah.
I think this study was like, they said $80,000, like everything over $80,000,
like you really don't experience any much more, you know,
before that you're you get into like 40,000, 30,000. Well,
now you're struggling. It's hard to feed yourself. Yeah. Becomes very,
it's a weight on your shoulders. Mm <affirmative>.
But once you hit a certain number, it's like, eh, you're gonna be all right.
Yeah. You're not gonna be in the street. Yeah. You' be fine.
You're living. Like I remember I lived in this apartment or this, uh,
kind of apartment and then I moved to a better apartment.
And then I was sitting in this better apartment. I was like,
I'm kind of used to this. Like I'm used to this, like, this is just home now.
<affirmative>, there's a feeling when you get, when you're home, like,
all right, I'm home now, I'm in this other apartment. It just costs more money.
Yeah. You know, like, okay. I remember thinking that like, is this better? Yeah.
I mean, I guess it's better, but it cost twice as much.
Like now I gotta think about how I'm gonna pay for this. Yeah.
<Laugh> boy, I think about like,
when I had like $5 in the bank room when I had $5,000 in the bank, like,
did I feel different? I didn't feel different at all.
No. You know, I might have felt different.
Like when I go out to eat and the check comes, like,
how am I gonna pay for this kind of thing? But,
but emotionally I didn't feel any different whatsoever.
Yeah. And, uh, yeah,
I think that's such an important lesson for all of us to learn. And if you know,
the early, the sooner you figured those things out, you know, the.